# Second Sessional Questions for Data Structures and Algorithms

## Course offered by ECE Department, MIT Manipal

1. A binary search tree is generated by inserting in order the following integers:
   `50, 15, 62, 5, 20, 58, 91, 3, 8, 37, 60, 24`.
   The number of nodes in the left subtree and right subtree of the root respectively are-

2. Construct a BST for the input sequence: `20, 10, 5, 1, 7, 15, 30, 25, 35, 32, 40`
   in the order of the given values for the initial empty tree.
   How do you construct a threaded binary tree?
   Using the same, convert the BST drawn by you into the threaded binary tree

3. Construct an AVL tree with the following values: `15, 20, 24, 10, 13, 7, 30, 36, 25`

4. Describe the Binary search algorithm and also implement the same using C++.

5. Describe the following representation of graph data structure with example.

   - Adjacency Matrix
   - Adjacency List

6. Define the following with respect to binary tree:

   - Parent
   - Degree of tree
   - Level of tree
   - Edge

7. Construct a Binary Search Tree (BST)for the input keys `200, 100, 300, 90, 150,400,250,120, 180`
   in the order for the initial empty tree.
   How do you construct a threaded binary tree?
   Using the same convert the BST drawn by you into the threaded binary tree.

8. A source generates a message symbols with certain frequencies are given in the table:

   Symbols: `a f l o r t`
   Frequency: `7 8 5 3 9 4`

   Construct Huffman tree and encode the message “flat” using the above constructed Huffman tree.

9. Write a function for Quick Sort. Trace the function for the following input values:
   `45, 26, 27, 70, 14, 90`

10. What are the methods used to represent undirected graph? Represent the graph given Fig 5B using both the representation methods.

    ```code
    A-----B
    |\ /
    | \ /
    | c
    | \
    D E
    \ /
    F
    ```

11. Define Binary Search Tree (BST). Create a binary search tree in the order of given input as:
    `17, 13, 6, 7, 90, 33, 99, 44, 58, 20, 43, 100, 5`

    Display the BST created at this point using postorder and preorder traversal.

12. Construct a Huffman tree for the input symbols and their frequencies are given in the table:  
    Symbols: `A B C D E F`
    Frequency: `5 7 20 5 20 45`
    Encode the following message using the Huffman tree: ADCFEEA

13. Construct a binary tree for a given a inorder traversal:
    `D, B, E, I, H, A, F, C, G, J`
    and the preorder traversal:
    `A, B, D, E, H, I, C, F, G, J`

14. Describe the Merge sort algorithm for the input array:
    `54, 26, 93, 17, 77, 31, 44, 55, 20`
    Also write a program to sort the elements using same algorithm.

15. Explain the sequential search algorithm with example.
    Write a C++ program to implement the same

16. A company uses a compression technique to encode the message before storing in a file.
    Suppose the message contains the characters with their frequency given in the table.
    Note that each character in input message takes 1 byte.

    If the compression technique used is Huffman Coding, how many bits will be saved in the message?
    Character: `a b c d e f`
    Frequency: `5 9 12 13 16 45`

17. The prototype of the member function of class BTREE is as follows:

    ```cpp
    void insert(node *root, node *temp);
    ```

    Write function to insert a node into the binary tree.
    First and second arguments corresponds to root and new node to be inserted into the binary tree respectively.

18. A Construct a binary tree from the following array representation:

    Index: `0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14`

    Values: `3 5 9 6 8 20 10 - - 9 - - - - -`

19. Construct Binary Search Tree using the following postorder traversal:

    `5, 6, 3, 34, 23, 78, 65, 45, 22, 15, 10`

20. Write algorithm to subtract two polynomials.

21. Construct BST for input sequence:

    `20, 10, 5, 1, 7, 15 , 30, 25, 35, 32, 40`

22. Describe the properties used to determine relationship among parent, left child, right child and siblings in binary tree using array representation.

23. Describe non-recursive post order traversal algorithm.
