Questions for Second Sessional

    Q1 3C. A binary search tree is generated by inserting in order the following integers:
    50, 15, 62, 5, 20, 58, 91, 3, 8, 37, 60, 24. 
    The number of nodes in the left subtree and right subtree of the root respectively are-

    Q2 4A. Construct a BST for the input sequence: 20, 10, 5, 1, 7, 15, 30, 25, 35, 32, 40 
    in the order of the given values for the initial empty tree.
    How do you construct a threaded binary tree? 
    Using the same, convert the BST drawn by you into the threaded binary tree

    Q3 4B. Construct an AVL tree with the following values: 15, 20, 24, 10, 13, 7, 30, 36, 25

    Q4 5A. Describe the Binary search algorithm and also implement the same using C++.
    
    Q5 5B. Describe the following representation of graph data structure with example. 
    a. Adjacency Matrix            b. Adjacency List 

    Q6 1B. Define the following w.r.t binary tree: Parent, Degree of Tree, Level of tree and Edge

    Q7 4A. Construct a Binary Search Tree (BST)for the input keys 200, 100, 300, 90,150,400,250,120, 180 
    in the order for the initial empty tree.
    How do you construct a threaded binary tree? 
    Using the same convert the BST drawn by you into the threaded binary tree.
    
    Q8 4B. A source generates a message symbols with certain frequencies are given in the table:
      Symbols a f l o r t 
    Frequency 7 8 5 3 9 4 
    Construct Huffman tree and encode the message “flat” using the above constructed Huffman tree.

    Q9 5A. Write a function for Quick Sort. Trace the function for the following input values: 
    45, 26, 27, 70, 14, 90

    Q10 What are the methods used to represent undirected graph? 
    Represent the graph given Fig 5B using both the representation methods.
    A-----B
    |\   /
    | \ /
    |  c
    |   \
    D    E
      \ /
       F 
    
    Q11 4A. Define Binary Search Tree (BST). Create a binary search tree in the order of given input as: 
    17, 13, 6, 7, 90, 33, 99, 44, 58, 20, 43, 100, 5. 
    Display the BST created at this point using postorder and preorder  traversal
    
    Q12 4B. Construct a Huffman tree for the input symbols and their frequencies are given in the table:  
      Symbols A B C D E F 
    Frequency 5 7 20 5 20 45 
    Encode the following message using the Huffman tree: ADCFEEA 

    Q13 4A. Construct a binary tree for a given a inorder traversal: 
    D, B, E, I, H, A, F, C, G, J 
    and the preorder traversal : 
    A, B, D, E, H, I, C, F, G, J

    Q14 5A. Describe the Merge sort algorithm for the input array : 
    54, 26, 93, 17, 77, 31, 44, 55, 20. 
    Also write a program to sort the elements using same algorithm.

    Q15 5B. Explain the sequential search algorithm with example. 
    Write a C++ program to implement the same

    Q16 6.	A company uses a compression technique to encode the message before storing in a file. 
    Suppose the message contains the characters with their frequency given in the table.
    Note that each character in input message takes 1 byte. 
    If the compression technique used is Huffman Coding, how many bits will be saved in the message?       
    Character	a	b	c	d	e	f
    Frequency	5	9	12	13	16	45
    
    Q17 4.	The prototype of the member function of class BTREE is as follows: 	
    void insert ( node *root, node *temp); 
    Write function to insert a node into the binary tree. 
    First and second arguments corresponds to root and new node to be inserted into the binary tree respectively.

    Q18 3.	 A Construct a binary tree from the following array representation: 
    Index	0	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
    Values	3	5	9	6	8	20	10	-	-	9	-	-	-	-	-

    Q19 2.	Construct Binary Search Tree using the following postorder traversal: 
    5,6,3,34,23,78,65,45,22,15,10

    Q20 4. Write algorithm to subtract two polynomials.

    Q21 5. Construct BST for input sequence:
    20,10,5,1,7,15,30,25,35,32,40

    Q22 6. Describe the properties used to determine relationship among 
    parent , left child , right child and siblings in binary tree using  
    array representation.

    Q23 7. Describe non recursive post order traversal algorithm.
